---
layout: post
title:  "the monster study"
date:   2015-01-08 14:00:34
categories: language
---
**Wendell Johnson, one of the original speech pathologists, theorized that stuttering *originates in the ear of the listener.* The Monster Study was designed to test that theory, so called for a good reason.**

Under the guidance of Dr. Johnson at the University of Iowa in 1939, a graduate student called **Mary Tudor** conducted a study using orphaned children. This study was suppressed and hidden from all knowledge after the fact because of its use of human children subjects and the permanent adverse effects the study had upon them. At the time, there were far fewer restrictions and regulations on experiments and subjects. 

**Ms. Tudor randomly selected control subjects from the orphans, who would be told that they seem to be “having trouble” speaking. They were labeled as “stutterers” and told to consciously avoid making errors of any kind**.

Over many months, the control group were told never to speak, unless they could do so perfectly. As a result, these subjects exhibited new behaviors over time associated with stuttering.

1. The children had become extremely shy and spoke less.
2. When they did speak, it was slowly, quietly, and only in short utterances.
3. Eventually they were rarely speaking at all and had concluded that their speech was disordered. 
4. The subjects developed secondary behaviors and had indeed begun to stutter.

The irrevocable harm done to these children is a tragedy, and this study never should have been allowed to proceed. We have, however, learned a great deal from the misfortune of these children. 

**With this knowledge, new cases of stuttering can often be prevented.**

Stuttering is surprisingly difficult to define when one is challenged to describe all of its aspects. It is typically characterized by a range of behaviors that disrupt speechflow. Speech scientists have named such disruptions *disfluency*. People who stutter also frequently exhibit *secondary behaviors*, such as excessive blinking while talking, jaw-twitching, or jerking of the face.

"***Stuttering*** is what ***stutterers*** do to avoid ***stuttering***."

Having found the word *stuttering* inadequate, Professor Halvorson coined the term *Excessive Speech Tension* as an alternative, which embraces all behaviors that accompany anxiety associated with talking.

**Many parents have a tendency to unknowingly encourage speech anxiety by interrupting their children to correct perceived mistakes.**

Unfortunately, many of us are critical listeners who have a strict sense of acceptable, “fluent” speech.  An especially strict listener combined with a sensitive or impressionable speaker has the opportunity to create a stutterer. It is a common story that a highly anxious parent develops a stuttering child, because they constantly had disruptively corrected speech errors, giving rise to that child having a perpetual fear of speaking at all.

"**Stuttering originates in the ear of the listener.**"
