---
layout: post
title:  "stuttering is a mess of a complicated thing"
date:   2015-01-07 17:00:34
categories: language
---

My fall semester at UWRF included an unconventional lecture on the topic of disfluency and behavior modification. Our professor, Doctor Jerry Halvorson, assured us that the *pendulum* is always swinging. At one time, the behaviorists like Wendell Johnson had the speech therapy field convinced that stuttering is a set of trained behaviors, a disorder born of one's *belief* that one is a "stutterer." The pendulum has since moved toward the mechanical: stuttering is a problem with the flow of speech and the involved speech mechanisms. Doctor Halvorson believes that it will keep on swinging, between psychological and mechanical, psychological, mechanical.

Popular treatments right now include methods that disrupt the normal process of talking and attempt to reinvent how the patient talks. Alter the patient's rate of speech, reduce the phonetic and semantic difficulty, adjust the rhythm, reduce the sounds that seem to give the patient trouble. Though meant to be an initial step for the patient, the results of this type of treatment are unnatural sounding speech, sometimes robotic.

One of the unpopular approaches to stuttering therapy is the precise opposite. Do not focus attention on the patient's speech. Go do something else, and allow the person to regain self confidence and a sense of empowerment. The goal, here, is to demonstrate that the patient does have the ability to speak normally -- they must eliminate the behavioral triggers that may be buried quite deeply in the subconscious.

Okay, what is all of this feelings and subconsciousness hocus pocus?

The truth is, no one can cure stuttering. If it goes away, the cause will be unclear, and it could come back one day in a moment of weakness, anyway. It is something that almost always starts in children, right around when they've built a decent theory of mind, a sense of self. During this critical time, when the child is learning how to do absolutely everything, the stuttering of some kind starts to emerge. One theory is that all children and all adults do at least a small, unnoticeable amount of goofing up words-- but it is the children who are made aware of those goof-ups and take them seriously that start to do it *more*.

Our professor is averse to the words *stuttering* and *fluency* because, given all that he has studied on the topics, they do not appear to be real, tangible phenomena. Stuttering and fluency are, if you will, just ideas society has that probably can't be specifically defined. It's sort of like... where does the sky end and space begin? When is it night time and no longer day time? Okay, those things *probably are* defined, but by some people in white lab coats who took it upon themselves to measure exactly where the sky ends. Society doesn't really know, or care!

I know. This is messy. I'm trying to say that stuttering is defined differently for each person. "People" think that it's messed-up Porky-Pig speech that is really hard to listen to. Sure, that's true. Almost no so-called stutterer sounds like that, though. On the other side of things, I don't stutter, so I'm fluent, right? Well... sure. But I goof words up all. the. time. and so do you. People who stutter do it more. Right? It's all quite vague.

It's been proven that people who believe they stutter are likely to make frequent fluency-type errors. I will go in to this soon in a post about the Monster Study.